So we have just covered a few topics that relate to standards
for communicating medical images or clinical networks,
and the types of actors that you may see in a clinical network.
So let's see where AI algorithm would fit into clinical network.
Let's look at this diagram here.
So on this diagram,
this diagram is a little bit more involved than
the diagram that we have seen in the previous section.
In this diagram, you see something that
resembles more of what you might see in the real world.
So sometimes people have this routing service,
which listens to all the messages from clinical modalities,
and then they make decisions where the images would count to.
We have the radiology PACS,
and then we might have some other agents here.
Sometimes images get routed to other PACS instances.
For example, you may have a research PACS,
this would be a PACS system in
medical image storage system where the research data would go.
You would have a separate PACS for clinical specialties.
For example, radiation oncology department might have its own image storage.
Then you still have our enterprise viewing stations,
we have our EHR like agency,
we have a cloud-based agent.
So when thinking about where to deploy the AI algorithms,
you need to really understand what is it doing and what's the value proposition.
For example, an AI algorithm could be sitting here right next to a modality.
An algorithms sitting on the workstation that has deployed next to a modality,
would be doing things that needs to be done immediately after the image is acquired.
Sometimes this thing has to do with quality assurance.
For example, you might have an AI algorithm which
is deciding if an image is a good image,
if it's a proper quality,
if a proper anatomy was captured and flagged if things didn't happen.
Typically, in all scanner rooms there are computers
and there are technicians that look at such things.
AI algorithms might be designed to improve the quality of imaging and
assist the technicians whose job it is to make sure that the images are quite correctly.
Another place of integration could be this routing server here.
So routing server has to make decisions of where to send images,
and AI algorithm might be helping the routing server to send
images to one place or another, and so either send them to,
for example, research PACS,
onto some clinical specialty,
or maybe to bubble them up and highlight
them as images that need to be taken care of sooner than others.
An algorithm that's deployed on the routing server,
it might have more relaxed requirements as to the time of processing,
and this algorithm might be looking at
DICOM DMC messages and might be communicating with DICOM DMC messages.
Then you can have algorithms deployed directly on
the clinical PACS and these could be algorithms that run in the background.
For example, an algorithm that is doing automatic measurements
of lesions or different types of anatomy.
We've talked about segmentation tasks could be
an algorithm that would be deployed directly on clinical PACS.
You can have algorithms that sit on a clinical workstation,
and it can improve the productivity of radiologists.
Other types of algorithms might sit anywhere in those other actors on the network,
and sometimes networks, and that's a more recent development.
Clinical networks might have separate AI servers where all of
those AI algorithms would be accumulated,
and your algorithm might be running on some accelerated inferencing platform,
which will be designed to get results back faster.
So when deploying your AI algorithms in the clinic,
it is important to understand the map of the actors in the clinic,
understand what is the place of your algorithms integration,
because this will define the performance and
other operational requirements for your AI algorithm.